"
My fellow Americans,
Tonight, I am speaking to you because there is a growing humanitarian and security crisis at our southern border. Every day customs and border patrol agents encounter thousands of illegal immigrants trying to enter our country.
We are out of space to hold them and we have no way to promptly return them back home to their country. >> Trump border wall speech: Live updates from the prime time address America proudly welcomes millions of lawful immigrants who enrich our society and contribute to our nation. But, all Americans are hurt by uncontrolled illegal migration. It strains public resources and drives down jobs and wages.

Among those hardest hit are African-Americans and Hispanic Americans. Our southern border is a pipeline for vast quantities of illegal drugs, including meth, heroin, cocaine and fentanyl. Every week 300 of our citizens are killed by heroin alone, 90 percent of which floods across from our southern border. More Americans will die from drugs this year than were killed in the entire Vietnam War.In the last two years, ICE officers made 266,000 arrests of aliens with criminal records including those charged or convicted of 100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes, and 4,000 violent killings. Over the years thousands of Americans have been brutally killed by those who illegally entered our country and thousands more lives will be lost if we don’t act right now. This is a humanitarian crisis, a crisis of the heart and a crisis of the soul.Last month, 20,000 migrant children were illegally brought into the united States, a dramatic increase. These children are used as human pawns by vicious coyotes and ruthless gangs. One in three women are sexually assaulted on the dangerous trek up through Mexico. Women and children are the biggest victims by far of our broken system. This is the tragic reality of illegal immigration on our southern border. This is the cycle of human suffering that I am determined to end.My administration has presented Congress with a detailed proposal to secure the border and stop the criminal gangs, drug smugglers and human traffickers. It’s a tremendous problem. Our proposal was developed by law enforcement professionals and border agents at the department of homeland security. These are the resources they have requested to properly perform their mission and keep America safe. In fact, safer than ever before. The proposal from Homeland Security includes cutting-edge technology for detecting drugs, weapons, illegal contraband and many other things. We have requested more agents, immigration judges, and bed space to process the sharp rise in unlawful migration fueled by our very strong economy. Our plan also contains an urgent request for humanitarian assistance and medical support. Furthermore, we have asked Congress to close border security loopholes so that illegal immigrant children can be safely and humanely returned back home. Finally, as part of an overall approach to border security, law enforcement professionals have requested $5.7 billion for a physical barrier. At the request of Democrats, it will be a steel barrier rather than a concrete wall.This barrier is absolutely critical to border security. It’s also what our professionals at the border want and need. This is just common sense. The border wall would very quickly pay for itself. The cost of illegal drugs exceeds $500 billion a year. Vastly more than the $5.7 billion we have requested from Congress. The wall will always be paid for indirectly by the great new trade deal we have made with Mexico. Sen. Chuck Schumer, who you will be hearing from later tonight, has repeatedly supported a physical barrier in the past along with many other Democrats. They changed their mind only after I was elected president. Democrats in Congress have refused to acknowledge the crisis. And they have refused to provide our brave border agents with the tools they desperately need to protect our families and our nation. The federal government remains shut down for one reason and one reason only because Democrats will not fund border security. My administration is doing everything in our power to help those impacted by the situation. But the only solution is for Democrats to pass a spending bill that defends our borders and reopens the government. This situation could be solved in a 45-minute meeting. I have invited congressional leadership to the White House tomorrow to get this done. Hopefully, we can rise above partisan politics in order to support national security.Some have suggested a barrier is immoral. Then why do wealthy politicians build walls, fences and gates around their homes? They don’t build walls because they hate the people on the outside, but because they love the people on the inside. The only thing that is immoral is for the politicians to do nothing and continue to allow more innocent people to be so horribly victimized. America’s heart broke the day after Christmas when a young police officer in California was savagely murdered in cold blood by an illegal alien who just came across the border. The life of an American hero was stolen by someone who had no right to be in our country.Day after day, precious lives are cut short by those who have violated our borders. In California, an Air Force veteran was raped, murdered and beaten to death with a hammer by an illegal alien with a long criminal history. In Georgia, an illegal alien was recently charged with murder for killing, beheading and dismembering his neighbor. In Maryland, MS-13 gang members who arrived in the United States as unaccompanied minors were arrested and charged last year after viciously stabbing and beating a 16-year-old girl. Over the last several years, I have met with dozens of families whose loved ones were stolen by illegal immigration. I’ve held the hands of the weeping mothers and embraced the grief-stricken fathers. So sad. So terrible. I will never forget the pain in their eyes, the tremble in their voices and the sadness gripping their souls. How much more American blood must we shed before Congress does its job?For those who refuse to compromise in the name of in the name of border security, I would ask, imagine if it was your child, your husband or your wife whose life was so cruelly shattered and totally broken. To every member of Congress, pass a bill that ends this crisis. To every citizen, call Congress and tell them to finally, after all of these decades, secure our border. This is a choice between right and wrong, justice and injustice. This is about whether we fulfill our sacred duty to the American citizens we serve. When I took the oath of office, I swore to protect our country. And that is what I will always do so help me God. Thank you and good night
President Donald Trump urged Congress to provide funding for a border wall and criticized investigations of him during a State of the Union address that was also punctuated by calls for unity.

Just days after the end of the longest government shutdown in history, Trump managed to draw bipartisan applause during a handful of moments in his roughly 80-minute speech by mentioning the record number of women in Congress and paying tribute to an 81-year-old Holocaust survivor.

But much of the speech was devoted to the very issues that led to the shutdown: Trump’s demand for billions of dollars for a border wall to address what he described as an “urgent national crisis.”

“The lawless state of our southern border is a threat to the safety, security, and financial well-being of all Americans,” Trump told a House chamber filled with lawmakers, members of his Cabinet and four Supreme Court justices. “We have a moral duty to create an immigration system that protects the lives and jobs of our citizens.”
President Donald Trump remains committed to building a border wall with Mexico, but he hasn't been able to get the money to do it. And Mexico doesn't seem poised to pay for it, either.

The federal government is in a partial shutdown because Trump says he won't sign any spending bill that doesn't include $5.7 billion to build the wall. Democrats in Congress are unwilling to vote for a bill providing that money.

Even though Trump is demanding billions for the wall from U.S. taxpayers, he's also contending that the wall will be paid for through a renegotiated trade deal that hasn't yet cleared U.S. Congress. It also needs final legislative approval from Mexico and Canada, the two other countries party to the agreement.

Trade experts have pushed back against Trump's false claims that the renegotiated North American Free Trade Agreement (renamed by Trump as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement) will pay for the wall. Trump claims that the United States will see added revenue from the potential deal. But even if U.S. tax revenue increases in response to increased revenues of U.S. firms, Congress would still need to allocate that money for the wall. Trump so far has failed to secure that wall money from Congress.

The Trump administration earlier received about $1.6 billion from Congress for border barriers. But that money wasn't used to build any new wall. Conditions for the money said it could only be for designs previously used, such as fencing.

As the government is in a partial shutdown over Trump's demand for money for the border wall, he's said that the wall doesn't have to be concrete, that it could be a barrier of steel slats. But he's also said that a concrete option remains. Several factors remain unknown: whether Trump and Congress will agree on funding for a border wall, how much that funding would be, and what kind of wall would be built.

As matters stand, Mexico has not paid for a wall. Congress has not appropriated money for a wall. Fencing is being built or has been completed at the southwest border. But not a wall.

Trump's promise to build a border wall and have Mexico pay for it has not been fulfilled, and the government is in shutdown as the fight continues. We rate this as Stalled.

In his first public appearance since Tuesday -- amid a 27-day government shutdown and 24 hours after the death of four Americans in Syria -- President Donald Trump delivered a meandering speech at the Pentagon on Thursday.

Trump began by offering condolences to the families of four Americans killed in Wednesday's suicide blast in Syria -- the first time he has acknowledged the attack since it happened.
"I want to take a moment to express my deepest condolences to the families of the brave American heroes who laid down their lives yesterday in selfless service to our nation. These are great people, great, great people. We will never forget their noble and immortal sacrifice," Trump said.
ISIS has claimed responsibility for a deadly explosion that killed four Americans and at least 10 other people in the Syrian city of Manbij on Wednesday.
4 Americans among those killed in Syria attack claimed by ISIS
4 Americans among those killed in Syria attack claimed by ISIS
The attack came after the White House announced last month that the US would be pulling troops from Syria, which led to the resignation of Defense Secretary James Mattis.
Against the backdrop of a partial government shutdown stemming from disagreements over funding for a US-Mexico border wall, Trump pivoted from the condolences to speaking about the need for a border wall through the lens of national security.
"This morning I also would like to briefly address another matter of critical national security -- the humanitarian and security crisis at our southern border. Without a strong border, America's defenseless, vulnerable and unprotected," Trump said.
The President thanked the military for its assistance on the border amid earlier migrant caravans, adding that thousands of migrants are currently moving toward the US in caravans.
"We don't know who they are, where they're from -- nothing," Trump said. "We need strong borders. We need strong barriers and walls. Nothing else is going to work," he continued, adding that a border wall "should have been done by other Presidents."
Trump, during his Pentagon speech, went on to admonish Democratic "fringe" party members, who equated to "the radical left", for a lack of progress toward reopening the federal government amid negotiations surrounding the border wall.
"While many Democrats in the House and Senate would like to make a deal, (House) Speaker (Nancy) Pelosi will not let them negotiate. The party has been hijacked by the open borders fringe within the party. The radical left becoming the radical Democrats," Trump said.
Though Pelosi as the leader of her party is who Trump needs to negotiate with, there's no evidence she's worked to block any members from talking to the White House.
Trump also found a way during his speech which was billed as focusing on missile defense to confirm his support for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, following a New York Times report outlining his distaste for the international group.
"We cannot be the fools for others. We cannot be. We don't want to be called that and I will tell you for many years behind your backs ... that is what they were saying. So there's a big difference. We're going to be with NATO 100% but as I told the countries, you have to step up," he said.
The President has frequently called on nations in the alliance to pay a larger share of their defense spending.
"They're starting to step up," he added.
Trump also touted building a missile defense capability that "can detect and destroy any missile launching against the United States, anywhere, anytime, any place."
He said the review prioritized the need for developing new technology, obtaining new interceptors and radars, improving missile detection systems, emphasizing space missile detection, "fair burden sharing" with US allies and "removing bureaucratic obstacles" from deploying the new technologies.
And the President strongly hinted that his administration would increase the defense budget again next year.
"You're only doing that because I gave you the greatest and biggest budget in our history and I've now done it two times and I'd hate to tell the rest of the world but I'm about to do it three times," Trump told the audience following an opening round of applause.

"